Alice In Wonderland is a 2010 American Gothic dark fantasy adventure film directed by Tim Burton from a screenplay 
written by Linda Woolverton and produced by Walt Disney Pictures. A live action adaptation and remake of Lewis 
Carroll's works, the film follows Alice Kingsleigh, a nineteen year old who falls down a rabbit hole by going back 
to Wonderland, and alongside the Mad Hatter helps restore the White Queen to her throne by fighting against the Red 
Queen and the Jabberwocky, a dragon who endangers Wonderland's residents. 
Alice in Wonderland began development in December 2007, when Burton was asked to direct two 3D films for Disney, 
including the remake of Frankenweenie. Production began in September 2008 concluding within three months, and was 
shot in the United Kingdom and the United States. It was followed by an extensive post production and visual 
effects process where filming included live action and motion capture sequences. Burton's frequent collaborator, 
Danny Elfman, composed an original theme for the film, which premiered in London at the Odeon Leicester Square on 
February 25, 2010. It was released in the United Kingdom and the United States through the Disney Digital 3D, 
RealD 3D, and IMAX 3D formats as well as in standard theaters on March 5.
The film generated over 1 billion dollars in ticket sales and became the fifth highest grossing film during its 
theatrical run, and it is also the second highest grossing film of 2010. Amongst Disney's live action adaptations, 
the film is tied for third most expensive, alongside Mulan and the fourth highest grossing readaptation to date. 
It received three nominations at the 68th Golden Globe Awards including for Best Motion Picture. At the 83rd Academy
Awards, it won Best Art Direction and Best Costume Design, and was nominated for Best Visual Effects. The film 
received numerous other accolades.
While not the first film in its genre, Alice in Wonderland is credited with starting a trend of live action fairy 
tale and fantasy films being green lit, particularly from Walt Disney Studios. A follow up film, titled Alice 
Through the Looking Glass, was released on May 27, 2016
Here is how the movie goes. Nineteen year old Alice Kingsleigh, having mourned the recent loss of her father, is 
troubled by strange recurring dreams and the stifling expectations of the society in which she lives. After 
receiving an unwanted marriage proposal from Hamish Ascot at his father's British garden party, Alice spots a 
familiar white rabbit wearing a waistcoat and carrying a pocket watch. She follows it to a rabbit hole and falls in. 
She shrinks after drinking from a bottle labeled Drink Me, meaning she cannot reach a key on 
a table, and then eats a cake labeled Eat Me, transformed into a giantess. After drinking 
from the bottle again to fit through a tiny door, she enters the forest of a fantastical world called Underland. 
There, she is greeted by the White Rabbit, a Dormouse, a Dodo, Talking Flowers, and identical twins Tweedledum and 
Tweedledee, who all apparently know her.
Alice asserts that she is dreaming, but learns from Absolem the Caterpillar that she is destined to slay the 
Jabberwocky and end the tyranny of the Red Queen. The group is ambushed by the ravenous Bandersnatch and the Red 
Queen's knights, led by the Knave of Hearts. All are captured except Alice, who escapes, and the Dormouse who takes 
one of the Bandersnatch's eyes. The Knave informs the Red Queen of Alice's return, and is ordered to find her 
immediately.
The Cheshire Cat guides Alice to the Mad Hatter, March Hare, and Dormouse's tea party. The Red Knights and the 
Knave of Hearts disrupt the party, but Alice manages to hide in a teapot. The Hatter then takes her to a safe place. 
He explains that the Red Queen took over Underland, usurping her sister, the White Queen. While in the woods, the 
Red Knights find the two, but the Hatter gives himself up so that Alice can escape. She is found by the Knave's 
Bloodhound, named Bayard, who is allied with the resistance. He takes Alice to the Red Queen's castle, where she 
becomes a giant again after eating another Upelkuchen.
Infiltrating the palace as a courtier named Um, Alice learns that the vorpal sword, the only weapon capable of 
killing the Jabberwocky, is locked inside the Bandersnatch's den. The Knave makes a pass at Alice, which she 
rebuffs, but the jealous Red Queen orders her beheading. Alice obtains the sword and returns the Bandersnatch's eye. 
He gratefully helps her escape the castle and delivers her to the White Queen, who gives Alice a potion that returns 
her normal size. The Cheshire Cat uses his shapeshifting powers to free the Mad Hatter, who incites rebellion amongst 
the Red Queen's subjects. Meanwhile, Absolem, who is turning into a pupa, finally gets Alice to remember that she visited 
Underland when she was a little girl, and called it Wonderland. Just before his chrysalis closes, he advises her to 
fight the Jabberwocky, save Underland, and stop the Red Queen for good.
The Queens gather their armies on a chessboard like battlefield and send Alice and the Jabberwocky to decide the 
battle in single combat. The battle ends when Alice beheads the Jabberwocky with the vorpal sword, and the red 
knights gratefully turn against their ruler. The White Queen banishes her sister and the Knave into exile together, 
then gives Alice a vial of the Jabberwocky's purple blood, which can fulfill one wish. Alice says farewell to her 
friends, then wishes to return home.
Alice awakens in the rabbit hole. When she returns to the gazebo at the garden party, she refuses Hamish's proposal 
and impresses Lord Ascot with her idea of establishing trade routes to Hong Kong, her father's original idea, 
inspiring him to take her on as his apprentice. As Alice prepares to set off on a trading ship, Absolem, in his new 
butterfly form, lands on her shoulder.