Hey guys, I was affected by Amazon’s mass layoffs during the early hours of Tuesday, October 28th. It is a strange 
feeling that I am struggling to describe to friends and family. You tell your coworkers that you will see them the 
next day, but you wake up and can not access your work email, much less your office.
While the past few days have been deeply unsettling, I have been reminded to slow down and take stock of my career 
trajectory. My priority was finding a distraction, so I went to my first NBA game the next night. Following that, 
I have spent a lot of time reflecting on my journey to Amazon as an electrical engineering major. 
During the 2020 lockdown, I was working remotely at my first engineering internship and was desperate for all 
interactions. At the time, my friends who were CS majors were preparing for interviews together via Zoom. I would 
join in occasionally for fun. Although I had some computer science knowledge through requisite classes, I became 
deeply inspired by my friends’ journeys. There began my drive to learn more about programming and earn my way into 
this field. After weeks of studying using platforms like Leet Code, YouTube, and text. I picked up a computer 
engineering minor. I also decided to apply for software development internships.
I landed an internship at Amazon in Chicago during the summer of 2022. It was the best summer of my life, and I 
worked extremely hard for a return offer to the team I enjoyed working at so much. I began my full time position in 
January 2024, and it has been a life changing journey. I have learned so much more about end to end microservice 
design and OE, and above all, I understand the power of resilience. I’m glad that I now have skills and experience 
as both a software developer and an electrical engineer. 
Now, I am working on refining myself even more to step up in my career. I am working on personal projects while job 
hunting. My evening runs by the lake have also kept me going. Due to visa restrictions, I have the next 5 months 
to land a new role, so I am leaning heavily on my network. Thank you to my friends and family who have offered 
advice and sent me referrals. And to my LinkedIn network, you can support me by sharing this post and sending job 
openings/referrals related to Software Development and Electrical Engineering. 
Thank you.